# Kubernetes

[Kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes) (also known as k8s) is an open-source platform for managing containerized applications across multiple hosts. This is why Kubernetes is usually used with Docker. Kubernetes was originally made by Google, targeted at production use in big applications. While one of its biggest rivals, Docker's own [Docker Swarm](https://github.com/docker/swarm), is still sometimes used in development environments or with small container clusters due to being simpler, Kubernetes is definitely the de facto standard for automated container management.

Kubernetes cluster consists of multiple nodes (VMs or physical machines). Each node can run multiple pods, which are groups of one or more (Docker) containers. Kubernetes can monitor the load of existing pods and automatically create or destroy pods as needed. For example, if your application is getting under heavy load, Kubernetes can create more pods for multiple different nodes so that the application runs on a higher amount of computers in your cluster, making applications scale nicely given there are enough computers in the cluster. This also makes it possible to always have multiple instances of the app running, maximizing uptime.

Kubernetes also has "self healing" systems so that if the application deviates from the desired configuration, for example if you always want to have two instances of the application running at the same time and one of them crashes, Kubernetes notices this and tries to fix the situation (for example by restarting the relevant pods).

Kubernetes has a wide array of other tools to make managing containerized apps as automated as possible. Because of this, Kubernetes is especially good for big applications where a) you need to manage resources across multiple devices and b) when you really don't want any downtime for your app.
